Once you have been able to identify the main hypotheses that are implicit in your idea,
that are implicit in the business model, sometimes in English they are used in terms that are
buried and the term buried is used because sometimes those hypotheses are not so obvious
and we have to unburied them, we have to identify all of them to validate them one by one.
Well, the next step is, as I just said, to validate them.
The next step is to see if those hypotheses, if you are in the right or you are not in the right.
And I guarantee you that in 80% you will not be in the right.
But hey, if we are able to learn it quickly without having spent a lot of money,
you have room for maneuver to evolve.
And how do we do it?
Well, we do it through experiments, we do it through the minimum viable product.
I want you to know that sometimes these terms are used indistinctly
and all experiments in many cases are called minimum viable product.
I think it is more intuitive to think about experiments from the point of view of specific tests
to validate a series of specific hypotheses
and the minimum viable product is perhaps a later phase
in which we go out to the market with a minimum viable product
that we will study in more detail and allows us to validate
the totality of the business model hypotheses.
It is not really easy to get all this going.
What happens is that there are a series of companies that have done it successfully
and I am going to tell you some cases and it will illustrate you.
And when you see yourself in a similar situation, that you have to validate a specific hypothesis,
it is a matter of looking for successful cases and doing something similar.
We are going to see several tools to do experiments.
The first and very common is to simply create a landing page.
Instead of creating the product, we create a landing page that will help us learn many things.
And I'm going to put you in the case of Buffer, which is an application that helps community managers,
what helps you is to manage Twitter, to manage the editorial calendar of the publications you do on Twitter, etc.
When his founder had this idea, he had no idea if his target audience,
which are mainly community managers, felt the need for something like this
or if the idea of ​​the specific product that occurred to him was going to be that he thought it was a great idea,
but he did not know if his target audience would like it, etc.
What did he do? Instead of creating the product, instead of spending a lot of money,
he created a landing page, which explained in a very simple way how his product worked.
And when people clicked the call to action button, it took them to another page where it said,
I'm sorry, we have not yet created the product, etc.
But of course, this, which he did in a very short time, because making a landing page can be done for free in a day,
what it did was to learn many things.
Well, quickly, from the first day, he was able to validate that there were people who felt that problem,
that his proposal liked, he was able to identify who are the segments of clients that were clicking the most,
and he was even able to validate certain metrics of his business from the first day,
because he already checked first hand and numerically what percentage of the visits that arrived on the landing page,
for example, they clicked the call to action because they had interest.
However, he needed to validate one of the key hypotheses, which is if they were willing to pay.
Well, he followed the same philosophy, Lean Startup, and what he did is, in addition to the landing page,
he incorporated the price plan.
Then he began to measure from the beginning how many people were willing to pay,
and also what price plans they preferred, etc.
Therefore, he was also able to validate this key hypothesis.
Another tool to validate, in this case, that there is a problem, the solution, etc.,
is to create a video in which you show your product, and this was done by Dropbox, it is a well-known case.
Dropbox initially faced this situation, the problem was already validated,
because there were many companies that were trying to create solutions similar to Dropbox,
to cloud housing services, for individuals, to share files with others, etc.
However, everything that was there did not work well, and in the end none had been successful.
Dropbox was trying to raise money, but investors were very skeptical.
And Dropbox did not have money to create the whole product, because it is a complex product that requires a lot of development.
What he did was a mock-up, and recorded a video of about 3 minutes,
in which the founder of Dropbox explained, he was explaining, you saw how it moved on the screen,
and how Dropbox worked, but the product was not created.
What he got was, overnight, the number of subscribers, of those interested in the product, etc., multiplied.
And the founder always says that he learned many things.
First, he eliminated the main risk, which is to have spent a lot of money to create the product when no one wanted it.
And also, what he got was to go to the market much earlier, and he always says that delaying the exit to the market is a fatal mistake.
He managed to have feedback from the first day, because many of these people, who also sign up,
from the beginning the customers give you a lot of feedback, which helps you to evolve the product.
As you can see, it was a real success, which allowed Dropbox to validate the main hypotheses.
We can do experiments using the concept of fake, or smoke test, going to the market with products that are not really real,
or you are pretending to be real, but deep down the product is not finished.
These are Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia, who are the founders of Airbnb.
When they had the idea, it was validated that there was a problem, because the accommodation in hotels, etc., was very expensive.
However, they had the idea of ​​saying, hey, why don't we make a platform where people share their house,
and they can rent the room of another person, etc.
But of course, at that time they didn't know if it was crazy or if anyone was going to want to use this type of service.
And the first thing they did was, on a weekend, in San Francisco, there was a congress,
and many people were going to attend, they created the website, very simple,
and the offers they made were fake, and in some cases they were the ones who were going to use it.
It was their house.
But they wanted to know if there was anyone who was willing to pay to go to the house of another person,
and share, and rent a room.
And they did it like that, and they checked it very quickly, because that same weekend they had demand to rent their room,
and they did it, they ended up renting the room, and then they learned first-hand how the interactions were,
what the client expected, etc.
They got a lot of value doing this test.
Another tool that many people have used is crowdfunding, using crowdfunding platforms,
the best known is Kickstarter, which allows you to validate many things.
There is a smartwatch manufacturer called Pebble,
and before building, designing the product, spending money on engineers, etc.,
what they wanted to know was if that idea of that product, with those specific features,
would be appreciated, or people would perceive value.
Therefore, they had a series of very important hypotheses to validate,
related to the value, related to the product, related to each of the features of the product.
And what did they do?
Well, they used Kickstarter, and it is one of the most successful cases in Kickstarter,
because it got 10 million dollars, and it also validated that there are thousands of people around the world
who saw that the product seemed super attractive, and they got two things,
validate it, and not only validate it, but also get all the funding to create the product.
A very common tool that Lean Startup also offers us to validate hypotheses and to learn,
it allows you to learn a lot, is A-B Testing.
A-B Testing is widely used in digital marketing, but we are not referring now,
we are referring to using A-B Testing in the creation of the business model,
in the creation of the product, in a previous phase.
A-B Testing is widely used, and you will learn it in digital marketing,
well, to test where to put the call to action, the buy button,
and put it here or here, or the colors, etc.
They are minor tests, but here I am talking about something more important and above.
And I'll give you the example of Bounce, which is a simple application that is designed to help you
not to be late for appointments, to manage time, etc.
I do not know exactly how it works, what I know is that when it went on the market,
they had no idea if the application was going to like someone or not.
And what they did was to test different messages,
to see what was the most powerful message with which they could go to the market.
Well, they did a test A-B, in a test A-B what you do is,
you bring traffic or potential clients to a landing page, for example,
and what you are doing is permanently measuring how those clients behave,
if they like the message A more, which is a value proposition promise,
or if they like B more.
It is a very clear test B, so if there is a clear winner,
what you have to do is build your product, your messages, etc.
all the marketing from that.
And they also did it with the income flows,
they did not know what price policy to apply,
they did not know what price was best applied.
And they did the same, they did a B-Testing,
they brought traffic to both options, to A and B,
and similar, but what changed was the price,
so what they measured was the price sensitivity,
if they were compensated to put a higher price or a lower price,
depending on what was the impact on the demand.
As you can see, the A-B Testing allows you to learn very quickly,
it allows you not to have to guess,
what you do is directly check it numerically.
Well, in addition to specific experiments,
the main tool to validate the hypotheses is the minimum viable product.
The minimum viable product consists of going to market
with a product with the minimum functionalities
in the shortest possible time that allows you to continue learning,
and we will see later in more detail in another class.